all right the Zephyrus g14 from asus
this laptop has to be one of the most
anticipated devices I've ever had on
this channel and it's because of their
chip these are running the new AMD Rison
4000 series laptop chips that are just
they were rumored they were leaked they
were hyped up to be these Intel killing
chips they were supposed to be super
powerful and let's find out if they
actually are now I've said this before
in previous videos where I'm like the
best videos that I do the best reviews
that I do come from devices where I'm
trying to actively replace something
that I already own and I use every day
with something new and this is one of
those videos so it might come across too
new or like I'm extra critical or picky
about certain things it's not because
I'm like you know I'm not feeling the
I'm not feeling the vibe on this device
I'm just saying that I'm I'm very
passionate about this kind of stuff
right so I'm trying to deliver to you
guys something where I put my mindset
into a consumer room like I'm spending
my own money on this if I'm gonna buy
this I want to know everything about it
so I'm gonna be it's it's very
particular okay so I'm gonna go in on
these things a little bit harder than my
regular review that sounded a little
weird but okay you get the vibe let's
get into performance first because I
think that's the most important thing
these things have excellent performance
like really good eight core 16 threads
it has incredible performance for multi
core applications it's faster than my
razor blade in Adobe Premiere for gaming
these are running a gtx 1660 TI max-q
with pretty good performance there is
another variation that runs a twenty
sixty max q which is obviously a little
bit more expensive but my initial
impression when I first saw this was
like I wish they'd put a more powerful
GPU in here but then you have to take in
consideration size like these are so
small this is a fourteen inch screen
it's just it's a small device I don't
think they could have put anything more
powerful in here while being able to
cool it properly now because it's a
fourteen inch screen my eyes took a
little bit of time to get used to gaming
on this thing I've been playing on
larger screens for quite a while but
after a couple weeks on this device I'm
perfectly happy with the size I think
the reduction in size and weight on this
thing is worth that GPU trade-off for
people that are looking for a smaller
and or lighter gaming laptop and it's
because the thermals on the Sun are
are good like if this thing had bad
thermals I would have been like it's not
worth it right but because they've done
such a good job thermally it's a winner
in my books now my thermal testing was
done in turbo mode which is kind of like
the best performing automatic mode where
the fan noise is loud but acceptable
there is a manual mode where you can
just crank the fans and the fans just
get way too loud to the point where I
think there's no scenario where I
personally would ever set it up to
manual mode it's just so loud it's
actually annoying the temperatures are
lower there but the clock speeds aren't
much faster so I don't feel like most
people will be using that particular
setting these laptops have an option for
an enemy matrix screen which allows you
to customize this back LED array to do a
whole bunch of different things you can
have animated gifs you can have a logo
you can have the time there you can do a
bunch of stuff and when I first saw this
in January I was like kind of super cool
having had this for a couple weeks
it's a personalization that you just
never get to see it really is for other
people looking at you using your device
like it's kind of a flexing me like hey
you know I got these crazy lights in the
back it's executed very well like the
lights are bright it's easy to configure
but it's not something that I think most
people will use for an extended period
of time it's just fun like what the
right memes it can be kind of
entertaining but I don't think most
people need this kind of meme machine on
the back of their displays okay so
there's the real display let's hug hug
those so the first one the dark one here
is running a 1440p 60 Hertz panel this
one is running a 1080p 120 Hertz panel
so this one first it's really nice to
see a 14 inch panel with high resolution
but I think more people are going to be
interested in this one the 1080p 120
hertz display now this is a relatively
unique product because I think at this
point in time there are no other 14-inch
or smaller displays that have a high
refresh rate like this and it is
technically a 120 Hertz panel but it
doesn't feel right if something feels
sluggish on this screen and if I had to
guess it's the response time
there's ghosting happening and I don't
blame a sous like they're not the
company that makes this screen right
they went out there looked for a company
that was making a display panel that
could fit into this thing and they tried
to get a high refresh one probably
worked with whatever they could get it's
better than a 60 Hertz screen that has
this kind
response time I would imagine but it's
not ideal so if you're the person who's
like this is the perfect gaming laptop
what is the thing that could possibly go
wrong on it I'd say it's the response
time on the screen
unfortunately now for me personally if I
had to choose between the two screens
I'd go for the 120 Hertz despite that
ghosting there is no webcam on this
laptop it doesn't even have one in the
box like there's no external one that
they include is just a webcam las'
device which I'm okay with it's just you
got to be aware of that when you're
picking one up now let's talk about the
keyboard
I like these keyboards a lot there is
one thing I noticed that pertains
specifically to the white model because
the backlighting on these keys isn't
super bright these kind of silver
reflective keys are hard to see with the
backlighting on it's actually easier to
see these keys even in the dark with the
backlighting off it's kind of weird like
that
I feel like when you go with white keys
like when you go white you have to go
bright you can I use can I say that if
you go white you have to go bright and
like razer does it with their they have
white keys but they're back letting a
super-bright so you can just see the
device really clearly when you have dim
lights it doesn't work that well the
keys themselves I like them they're
spaced well the layouts good they're
responsive I think most people will
enjoy this keyboard there's also a
fingerprint sensor and top right on the
power button so you can press it to
login the trackpad is pretty standard I
like it there's nothing weird about it
that drivers are good on it and there's
also your hardware buttons for volume
control as well as your ROG software so
you can press it to launch your ROG app
I'm gonna just nitpick on the app here
that thing is way too complex there's
all these charts and tabs in there to
try to make it feel techy but I think
most people that end up using that thing
just find most that information useless
and it just feels cluttered you could
just clean that thing out and it I think
it would just be a better piece of
software in terms of functionality it's
great it's more just the visual
appearance of that thing that I think
they should tidy up a little bit the
overall build is great the magnesium
alloy keeps it strong without adding too
much weight the chassis flux is mild and
the port selection is fair there's to
use be a to use PC but there's no thin
well three support alright let's talk
about the internals so to get inside
it's just a few screws and once you're
in there you see that ugly ass red PCB
it's
a single SSD it's pcie - so you can't
put crazy fast drives in there but it's
sufficient the Wi-Fi card is underneath
that SSD and they give you an Intel
Wi-Fi six card which is awesome there's
only a single slot of user serviceable
RAM so there's onboard RAM that's been
started on by the manufacturer and then
you can replace one stick so because
it's an AMD chip in here you want to
make sure that you're running two
channels you always want something
inside that Ram slot it's got lots of
heat pipes and the heat sinks look like
they're easily removed so you can reap a
sit if you want it's got powerful fans
in here as well as a 76 watt hour
battery which is the same size as the
15-inch model from last year I think
it's actually the same size as a 15-inch
this year even seventy-six watt hours
and with that you're getting an eight
and a half hour battery life the AC
adapter plugs in on the side which can
be kind of intrusive the brick itself is
actually a little bit smaller this year
it's 180 watts you can also charge it
with USB C so you can plug up to a 65
watt adapter to this thing to juice it
up you don't get full power with that
like normally with gaming laptops you
need to have your AC adapter plugged in
to be able to get full performance off
the GPU and when you have a USB C device
connected this thing even at 65 watts it
doesn't you don't you can't use the GPU
at its full potential you do need the
regular AC adapter okay
the speakers they're better this year
they're not awesome they're just pretty
good there's two on top two in the
bottom and they sound pretty clean and
they also get reasonably loud one thing
I didn't mention earlier the herbal lift
like when you open and close this device
you see how the hinge forces the device
to kind of prop up in the back it's a
thermal design that Asus doesn't some of
their devices but when you have this
kind of ergo lift design the hot air
often gets expelled like normally on a
laptop hot air comes out the back and
the sides but because the screen is here
the hot air comes out and it just kind
of hits the screen it's not too hot but
I think for people that are interested
in buying this machine they should be
aware of where the heat is going so I
thought I should mention it all right
overall takes on the g14 I really like
this device I wish that screen was you
know faster response time but I think
they did such a good job on the g14 most
importantly I am impressed with a AMD
brought like I knew would be good I knew
they were gonna bring the heat this year
but this is way better than I thought
could be it really just it pushes Intel
into this into this position where they
got a they got to bring it right this is
clearly better than what Intel offered
with their ninth gen stuff I'm not
exactly sure what their 10th gen stuff
is gonna bring we'll find out soon but
something tells me that this just this
probably made until a little bit worried
okay am I gonna be switching over to
these I'm probably gonna try out this
one like I mentioned I don't love the
white keyboard on this thing if you're
gonna go white you got to go bright but
I'm gonna try it the gray and try this